BUG: Use meson compile wrapper on Windows (#371)
mesonbuild/meson-python: docs/how-to-guides/meson-args.rst

or via Python build front-end config settings can be used to override
the ``meson-python`` defaults..

When building on Windows, ``meson-python`` invokes the ``ninja``
command via the ``meson compile`` wrapper. This activates the Visual

> Studio environment and allows ``ninja`` to use the MSVC compilers. The

Author: This is not necessarily true, it depends on what compiler meson selected at setup time (which depends compilers you have in the PATH.).
```suggestion
Studio environment (if that was the compiler meson selected at setup time) and allows ``ninja`` to find the MSVC compilers. The
```

Reviewer: Thank for the review. I was trying to keep the explanation as simple as possible. I really wanted to refer to the Meson documentation for the details of the compilers discovery, but I haven't found the section of the Meson manual where it is described. I thought hat "allows ninja to use the MSVC compilers" didn't imply that these are not necessarily the ones that will be used. Maybe adding more detail is required. Let me try again.

Reviewer: I've extended the documentation. Please take a look.

or via Python build front-end config settings can be used to override
the ``meson-python`` defaults..

When building on Windows, ``meson-python`` invokes the ``ninja``
command via the ``meson compile`` wrapper. When the GCC or the LLVM
compilers are not found on the ``$PATH``, this activates the Visual
Studio environment and allows ``ninja`` to use the MSVC compilers. To
activate the Visual Studio environment unconditionally, pass the

> ``--vsenv`` option to ``meson setup``, see this :ref:`example

Author: We should mention ``--setup-args`` here instead of ``meson setup``.

Reviewer: What's `--setup-args`? How to pass arguments to `meson setup` is described two paragraph above and repeated in the linked example. I don't think it is necessary to repeat it.

Author: I was referring to the cmdline version of ``[tool.meson-python.args]``

Users don't have direct access to ``meson setup`` through meson-python, so I think mentioning it confusing.

Maybe we can reword the previous sentence as ``pass the --vsenv option as a setup argument`` followed by the link to the example.

Reviewer: The diff does not make it obvious, but the page that being amended is title "Passing arguments to Meson". The man topic of the page is how to pass arguments to `meson setup`. It is explained in details two paragraphs above.

Author: I don't have a strong opinion on this, so if you really feel like the current approach is fine, I'm OK I guess.

Reviewer: What needs to be done is to pass an argument to `meson setup`, which is the consumer of the argument. The command line config setting or the `pyproject.toml` setting are the way you use to specify the argument when using `meson-python`. The way I would word this would be "pass the `--vsenv` option to `meson setup` via the `setup-args` config setting or the `tool.meson-python.meson.args.setup` setting in `pyproject.toml`." But this is just a repetition of what is written ten lines above.

or via Python build front-end config settings override the
``meson-python`` defaults.

When building on Windows, ``meson-python`` invokes the ``ninja``

> command via the ``meson compile`` wrapper. When the GCC or the LLVM

Reviewer 2: In terms of the code implementation, we quite literally check for `shutil.which` with any of cc, gcc, clang, clang-cl. The remaining autodetected default compilers for C are icl and pgcc, but icl ships with its own cl.exe (super "helpful" as noted by the code comments in detect.py) and meson will prefer cl.exe over pgcc anyway, if it can.

> command via the ``meson compile`` wrapper. When the GCC or the LLVM

Reviewer: I haven't found detailed documentation for the compiler auto detection. I had a look at the code, which behaves as @eli-schwartz describes https://github.com/mesonbuild/meson/blob/eb472a133f45826a246b40c3d775eebf098fd6b1/mesonbuild/utils/vsenv.py#L43-L51 I don't know how much of this is appropriate to document on the meson-python side, given that it is not explicitly documented and that I don't know how much of it is susceptible of change in Meson. I thought that GCC and LLVM covered the most popular cased and anyone using a less common compiler would know what they are doing.

or via Python build front-end config settings can be used to override
the ``meson-python`` defaults..

When building on Windows, ``meson-python`` invokes the ``ninja``

> command via the ``meson compile`` wrapper. This activates the Visual

Author: Can you delete the line ``This activates the Visual Studio environment ...``?

This contradicts the sentence right after, which should be the more accurate one (since activation of VS env is not guaranteed).

Reviewer: Sure. It should be better now. PTAL
